---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

### Mapping of OpenStreetMaps

This is the weekly blog-post for week 1 of 14.

#### Hello,

Contrary to my expectations, contributing to the Open Street Map was quite easy. When I went to see how my neighborhood looked from the perspective of this open source map, I realized how much information was actually missing, labels mislabeled, and places misplaced. It may be an exaggeration, but when I look at a map I would rather see accurate information rather than get to the wrong spot, and since I didn't see accurate information straight from the beginning, my trust in the map has immediately dropped. I started to edit out my neighborhood realizing that I myself needed an update on the outside world (wherever it may be). The crusade for correct information (that is, not missing information), labeled labels and placed places has begun (in other words, *off to the races*). 

While editing, something that really frustrated me about the Open Street Map is that if I typed in an address without specifying the city or area code it would result in the map finding the most random place you could imagine. Granted, it doesn't use your current location without asking for it. Since it stores where the users have left off, perhaps it may be able to extrapolate that I don't want some street in New Haven, but some street in New York instead.

There wasn't a lack of work to be done when finding shops to fix around, but unfortunately, the time pressed on and other matters had to pause my little crusade.

This concludes my first week of the Open Source contributions.

You may see my contributions history [here](https://www.openstreetmap.org/user/Chocolate-Spaghet/history).

>Thank you for reading!
