---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---


# Wikipedia, disambiguity, and humann behavior

This is the weekly blog-post for week 3 of 14.

#### Hello once again,

This week's task was to lift up some dust and take a closer look at what Wikipedia is and how it treats its own. A preface to the story I am going to be talking about here. [Catalina Cruz](https://www.cruzfornewyork.com/meet-catalina/) is a candidate running for an assembly spot in New York State. Unfortunately, she has the same name as the porn-star Catalina Cruz, which is highly damaging to any career, especially if one doesn't have a Wikipedia page to clear up the confusion. During March 2018, Wikipedia editors had a lengthy debate on the topic of creation of such a page and a disambiguity page, which shows up all Wikipedia searches when the search is too ambiguous. One of the senior editors of Wikipedia noticed that these were created and decided to take it upon himself to delete these pages.

Here's the problem: if one editor can control the fate of any page being created, is Wikipedia really the information site everbody should be looking at? The ability to singlehandedly bring down pages and close off important information is just too much power for a platform that works like a hive mind. Besides, the reasoning described on [this page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Articles_for_deletion/Catalina_Cruz_(politician)) can be applied to more people than just Catalina Cruz page and is certainly debatable, yet this is the one under *this* kind of attention. It is imperative that Wikipedia should change their policies regarding editorial powers and admining, or it will loose its status as a reliable source of information, however weak it may be.

The way how some of the editors have reacted to this article has made me believe that the editors themselves are not objective, which indicates bias. Biased writers and editors are bad contributors to the society because they wish to present their view of the world over their objective view of the world. This is especially harmful to a website that dispenses information to approximately 13.4 million people per day ([Source](https://www.quora.com/How-many-users-visit-Wikipedia-daily), information not verifiable due to Wikipedia not releasing such numbers). Resolution? Perhaps removing powers from senior editors and putting everythig to a vote would be more appropriate and correct, but this would be very time consuming and not very practical for all parties involved. Maybe this is the point where people must agree - Wikipedia is just not good enough for general public. It has information, it presents it, but the capability of adding new information is severely limited by the human element of the equation.

>Thank you for reading!
