---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---

### Exchanging pull requests

This is the weekly blog-post for week 6 of 14.

#### Hello there,

These two weeks we had a pull request practice with our peers' post repositories. It was all good and well until we had to actually do.

Forking is fairly easy, simply click on that fork button! Communication on the other hand, was not. As a team, we agreed to do a circular rotation, where a -> b, b -> c, and c -> a, where -> means forking, reviewing grammar, and pulling. The second round would be just reversing the roles of the people.

My first victim was [`johncgenere's repository`](https://github.com/hunter-college-cs-ossd/johncgenere-weekly). I have to say, I am not the person you want to review your ~~grandma~~ grammar. Apparently we only had to fork the `_posts` repository, but I forked the entire repository (both times) which was a bit redundant. With johncgenere's repository I fixed a few small things outside the `_posts` directory since they were bugging me. The posts were fairly well written, there were a few grammatical mistakes which weren't that hard to fix. Something I learned is how people wrote their posts more in-depth about the assignments, which I haven't been doing.

My second victim was [`gutierrezjdr's repository`](https://github.com/hunter-college-cs-ossd/gutierrezjdr-weekly). This was similar in process to the previous cycle, but I had to read even more descripting and informative blogs than previous ones. When I read these blog posts I realized how shallow my blog posts were and felt the need to rework them... Either case, there were very few grammatical errors in these posts, and it was a pleasure to read them, for the exception of their abrupt start and finish. The posts started out of nowhere, and if an outsider were to read those posts, they would probably be confused.

In terms of my open source contributions, this week was empty, but maybe, just maybe, Hacktober will bring something to me... after I will finish with these endless midterms.

*The latest reading assignment will be added here later on.*

> Thank you for reading!
