---
layout: post
title: Week 14
---

### The Final Week 

This is the weekly blog-post for week 14 of 14.

#### Hello there,

This week we had Assignment 13 and we also had to improve the open source project that we started to do, which has been a continuous activity for the past couple of weeks. I'm glad we voted on the projects we wanted to do, since my team is highly motivated to work on [CKB-next](https://github.com/ckb-next/ckb-next). We had communication with the [main maintainer/contributor tatokis](https://github.com/Chocolate-Spaghet/ckb-next/commits?author=tatokis), and he has been very helpful with pull requests and feedback on our pull requests just in general.

This week's assignment was about licenses, specifically about the open source licenses. We had to take a look at several different licenses from the GNU Public Licenses. These licenses are under the same umbrella of GNU, but there are differences one should never overlook when choosing one of these. For example, the difference between GNU General Public License and GNU Lesser General Public License is that GPL doesn't allow proprietary use, while Lesser GPL does.
| ------------------ |
|  GNU Licenses  |
| -------------------------- | ----------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- | --------------------------------- | -------------------------  |
| General Public License | Lesser General Public License | Affero General Public License | Free Documentation License | All-Permissive License |
| -------------------------- | ----------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- | --------------------------------- | -------------------------  |
| Always free access to original or its derivatives | Allows proprietary use | Allows for users to recieve source code when using over network | Allows users to modify and redistribute documentation | A lax, permissive free software license |
| -------------------------- | ----------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- | --------------------------------- | -------------------------  |

This is obviously not the only open source licenses, there are others.

**[Creative Commons License](https://directory.fsf.org/wiki/License:CC0)** (CC0) is one of the simpler licenses. The only thing this license does is add your work to the public domain, making it free from copyright, which comes with its own benefits and shortcomings. As in the famous story of  public domain fairytales and Disney, entities can use your work to profit off of it. However, similar to The Snow Queen and Frozen, the entities have to do very little in order to copyright similar code to your, or even your idea, and profit off of that.

**[Apache License](http://www.apache.org/licenses/)** is another example of a license compatible with GNU, but only version 3 due to the way it handles patent license termination. This license allows for the developers to use patents, and gets them out of trouble when other people have problems with it. This license also allows for the user to sell this code, as long as developers are not liable for software's outcomes.

**[Mozilla Public License](https://directory.fsf.org/wiki/License:MPL-2.0)** (MPL) is GNU compatible from GNU version 2. This license allows for developers to maintain this license for every iteration and distribution of this code. It also  allows other developers to make a Larger Work with this license, allowing for user distribution of the entire work as long as the original files are under MPL and are free to access to the public.

**[Public Domain](https://directory.fsf.org/wiki/License:PublicDomain)** is not a license, but is often referenced as a license. It is not, since it makes the work under the Public Domain be not copyrighted and not require a license. It might as well be an all-permissive non-copylleft free software license, meaning the developer is not copyrighting his work as is done automatically by the law, but does not allow copyright to be placed on this work.

**[Copyleft](https://www.gnu.org/copyleft/copyleft.html)** is an open source term, which talks about how the software has no copyright and will never have copyright placed on it. This method yields in free software, that will pass down its 'freeness' to its derivatives. This allows for easy creation of open source software. This free software, however, does not mean it comes at no monetary cost, but in the freedom sense. **[All-Permissive License](https://www.gnu.org/prep/maintain/html_node/License-Notices-for-Other-Files.html)** is a very lax license, that allows documentation and `README` alterations.

**[Creative Commons Licenses]()** (CC) is not a good software license. [It is stated so on their own website](https://creativecommons.org/faq/#can-i-apply-a-creative-commons-license-to-software), and the reason for that is due to the fact that CC wasn't created for software. It lacks the technical terminology needed for software licensing, especially in an open source environment. It does not address: patent rights, free reuse and modifiability of software, and it is not compatible with GNU. All in all, it is best used with anything but software.

This concludes this semester of open source contributions.

I just would like to say thank you, to the professor and my fellow classmates for an amazing semester of open source. I've always enjoyed (majority) the computer science community due to the friendliness and openness. I'm glad for this opportunity and am looking forward to the next semester.
*Cheers!*

> Thank you for reading!
