---
layout: post
title: Week 1 & 2
---

## This is the weekly blog-post for week 1 of 14.

#### Hello,

Contrary to my expectations, contributing to the open street maps was quite easy. When I went to see how my neighborhood looked from the perspective of this open source map, I realized how much information was actually missing, labels mislabeled, and places misplaced. It may be an exaggeration, but when I look at a map I would rather see accurate information rather than get to the wrong spot, and since I didn't see accurate information straight from the beginning, my trust in the map has immediately dropped. I started to edit out my neighborhood, realizing that I myself needed an update on the outside world (wherever it may be). The crusade for correct information (that is, not missing information), labeled labels and placed places has begun (in other words, *off to the races*). 

While editing, something that really frustrated me about the openstreetmaps is that if I typed in an address without specifying the city or areal code it would result in the map finding the most random place you could possibly imagine. Granted, it doesn't use your current location without asking for it, but since it stores where the user has left off, perhaps it may be able to extrapolate that I don't want some street in New Haven, but some street in New York.

Finding shops to fix around there wasn't lack of work to be done, but unfortunately, the time pressed on and other matters had to pause my little crusade.

And so ends my first week of the Open Source contributions.


You may see my contributions history [here](https://www.openstreetmap.org/user/Chocolate-Spaghet/history).

>Thank you for reading!

## This is the weekly blog-post for week 2 of 14.

#### Greetings,

Unlike last weeks assignment, this one was enlightening in other manners.

In order to do a good job of doing something, all aspects must be known, at least to some degree. While reading "[Why Open Source Misses the Point of Free Software](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/open-source-misses-the-point.html)" by Richard Stallman, I found out about how open source code programs and free programs are distinguished. The *freeness* of the programs is not in the aspect of no monetary value for the product, but rather in the *freeness* of the program's code - for its users to know what it is that is running on their machine.

Richard Stallman himself has greatly contributed to the free software community by developing GNU, first free and open source operating system. He also pioneered the idea of copyleft, which was practically the opposite of copyright - allowing for the users of the software to read it, change it, and distribute it (if the developer wishes any of those rights for the user to have). Another major contribution to free software was the founding of Free Software Foundation, which promotes the use and development of free software, alongside with building a community around it.

This article reminded me of "[Producing Open Source Software: How to Run a Successful Free Software Project](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/open-source-misses-the-point.html)", where in part "**Free** Versus **Open Source**" ([link](https://producingoss.com/en/introduction.html#free-vs-open-source)) Karl Fogel tackled the same exact issue, although without revealing the ethical parts of the conflict.

Eric Raymond's "[The Cathedral and the Bazaar](http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/index.html)" informed me of valuable lessons that came with experience about key principles in the development of an open source project. I found that using users as your co-developers is an obvious one, since the users will most definitely have different configurations of everything, giving you test samples that you possibly couldn't produce by yourself, resulting in bugs you would've never seen and suggestions you would've never thought of. This is the importance of the user and user feedback - if used correctly, it will make your software great. The other striking aspect in my eyes is "*When you loose interest in a program, your last duty to it is to hand it off to a competent successor.*" which is a wonderful advice, since one is bound to loose interest at some point, which, in my case is more often than I would like it to be. At the end of the day, the Cathedral wasn't built in a day.

This week, no contributions to openstreetmap (sorry).

>Thank you for reading!
