---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

### Endeavor of Open Source Books

This is the weekly blog-post for week 2 of 14.

#### Greetings,

Unlike last weeks assignment, this one was enlightening in other manners.

In order to do something well, all aspects must be well understood, at least to some degree. While reading "[Why Open Source Misses the Point of Free Software](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/open-source-misses-the-point.html)" by Richard Stallman, I found out about how open source code programs and free programs are distinguished. The *freeness* of the programs is not in the aspect of no monetary value for the product, but rather in the *freeness* of the program's code - for its users to know what it is that is running on their machine.

Richard Stallman himself has greatly contributed to the free software community by developing GNU, first free and open source operating system. He also pioneered the idea of copyleft, which was practically the opposite of copyright - allowing for the users of the software to read it, change it, and distribute it (if the developer wishes any of those rights for the user to have). Another major contribution to free software was the founding of Free Software Foundation, which promotes the use and development of free software, alongside with building a community around it.

This article reminded me of "[Producing Open Source Software: How to Run a Successful Free Software Project](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/open-source-misses-the-point.html)", where in part "**Free** Versus **Open Source**" ([link](https://producingoss.com/en/introduction.html#free-vs-open-source)) Karl Fogel tackled the same exact issue, although without revealing the ethical parts of the conflict.

Eric Raymond's "[The Cathedral and the Bazaar](http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/index.html)" informed me of valuable lessons that came with experience about key principles in the development of an open source project. I found that using users as your co-developers is an obvious one, since the users will most definitely have different configurations of everything, giving you test samples that you possibly couldn't produce by yourself, resulting in bugs you would've never seen and suggestions you would've never thought of. This is the importance of the user and user feedback - if used correctly, it will make your software great. The other striking aspect in my eyes is "*When you loose interest in a program, your last duty to it is to hand it off to a competent successor.*" which is a wonderful advice, since one is bound to loose interest at some point, which, in my case is more often than I would like it to be. At the end of the day, the Cathedral wasn't built in a day.

This week, no contributions to openstreetmap (sorry).

>Thank you for reading!
